Have you ever noticed this? Sometimes application work perfectly fine and suddenly during peak hours everything becomes slow. For example, while ordering food, food delivery apps sometimes take longer time to respond or longer time to load. Similarly, while making any online payments, transactions suddenly get delayed. Or the best example, while watching a newly released movie on a streaming platform, sometimes videos start keep buffering. These are few common instances which you observe in our day-to-day life, right? But at the same time, some big companies still handle millions of users very smoothly. So, the real question is, what makes one system strong and another system fail under pressure? The answer is hidden inside a few important system design concept, and trust me, if you understand this concept clearly, every future system design topic will become much easier for you. So, in this video, let's understand the most common system design terminologies using simple real-world examples, okay? All right. So, without any further delay, let's get started. >> [music] >> So, first let me list down the terminology, then we'll understand each of them with real-world example. So, scalability, latency, throughput, bottleneck, availability, fault tolerance. These are the common words or common terminology which are frequently used in any system design discussion. So, you should know these term before you start jumping into the any real-time system design architecture, okay? So, let's understand each of them with real world example. So, let's start with scalability. Now, what do you mean by scalability? Let's try to find out the definition from this word itself. Now, if I'll try to split this word scalability you can consider like this, scale plus ability. Okay? What does it mean? It means simply does your application has ability to scale the application when there is a huge traffic without breaking anything? Now, you might get confused with this technical definition. Let me give you one simple funny example, then it will easy for you to understand. For example, assume you open one food stall. Initially, you get 50 to 100 customer. So, as a single person, you are able to handle it alone. Now, what happened? Suddenly, you get 1,000 customers at a time. Then, what will happen? Now, simple thing, right? You have capacity of 50 to 100 customers, but you see 1,000 customers coming together towards your shop. Then, what will happen? Simply, customers will start standing in a long queue. And they might get food late. Or you may not have enough ingredient to prepare food for 1,000 person. Managing everything becomes extremely difficult because you are a single person who handle the entire shop and you get the huge traffic. This is called scalability problem. So, what will you do to handle such kind of situation? You will have to scale your business. Maybe, you can hire more employees or you can add more cooking station. Or the best option, you can open multiple food stalls so that 1,000 customers can go to different different stall and they can get food on time. Right? Now, let's relate the same example to software system. Now, what happened? Let's say you have one application which is live and up and running. Now, sometimes because of huge traffic, our server or machine cannot handle all the incoming request properly. Just like a single food stall struggle with too many customer, similar way a single server struggles with too many request. That's why we need to design application in such a way that they can handle a large number of user smoothly without crashing. And this ability is called scalability. Now, you might be wondering, "Okay, Boson, but how do we actually scale an application?" So, there are mainly two types of scaling. One is vertical scaling. Second one is horizontal scaling. So, there are two type of scaling, vertical scaling and horizontal scaling. So, we'll discuss both the approach in details with hands-on example in our upcoming videos, but for now, I just want you to become familiar with these concept. Now, what do you mean by vertical scaling? Let's say you have one server and that server configuration is something like this. You are running with 8 GB RAM and four CPU. This is what the server configuration. Let's say this server configuration is enough to handle 1,000 request or 10,000 request. But suddenly, what happened? Your traffic increased heavily. Now, the server will start struggling because 8 GB RAM, four CPU is not enough to handle that huge traffic. Then what you will do? You will increase the power of the same machine. Instead of 8 GB RAM and 4 CPU, you will increase it to 64 GB RAM to 32 CPU. Okay? Now again, you get more request. What do you need to do? Again, you need to increase, let's say, 64 GB RAM to 32 K CPUs. Like every time you get more traffic based on your load, you need to keep increase the power of your existing machine. And this mechanism called vertical scaling. Okay? In simple words, you make the same machine more powerful by adding the resources using this vertical scaling approach. But there is a limitation. You cannot keep increasing resources forever. At some point, the machine reach its maximum capacity. Let's say this machine maximum capacity is 64 GB RAM and 32 K CPUs. Beyond that, I cannot extend the machine resources. Now if I get 10 million or 10 trillion request, then my machine will not able to handle it because I can't extend it further. Right? So, you can relate to this example. It's same like we have a single employee in our company. We are giving him more and more hike to work all the task. Initially, by seeing the money and hike, employee can manage it. But if you keep increasing the workload endlessly, eventually, that person will burn out. Right? That's exactly the limitation of vertical scaling. It is simple and easy, but it cannot scale infinitely. Okay? So, to overcome that, companies came up with another approach called horizontal scaling. Now, what is this horizontal scaling? In horizontal scaling, what you can do, instead of increase the power of a single machine, instead of keep increasing the resource of a single machine, you can have multiple machines with some basic configuration. Okay? I have here six server with 8GB RAM, four CPU. So, instead of increasing single machine, I ran multiple server with same configuration, so that traffic can equally distribute to multiple server. Let's say I'm getting 1,000 request, 1,000 request will goes to different different server. Okay? Something like this. So, first request can go here, second request can go here. Something like this. Okay? This concept is called horizontal scaling. For example, instead of using one ultra powerful server with huge RAM and CPU, you can use 20 or 50 small server configuration like this. Okay? This work much better for large-scale application, and this is exactly the same like hiring more employee instead of putting all pressure in one person. Okay? Now, work gets distributed equally, and the system can handle more customers smoothly. This is the core idea behind horizontal scaling. I hope this concept makes sense for you. So, what I'll do, I'll just keep it properly so that it will easy for you to understand. This is nothing your vertical scaling, and this is nothing your horizontal scaling. Okay? So, if your system has this scalability capacity, then your application is good. Always, we need to design our system to handle scalability or to do the auto scaling based on the number of traffic coming to your system. Okay? Now, let's move to the next one, that is latency. So, what do you mean by latency? Now, what we can do, let's say I have one application. This is my application. Okay? I send a request. Now, I'll get a response. Okay? I send this particular request and I get the response. How much time the system takes to respond to a request? Okay? This is the request I send and this is the response I get. How much time it take to process that particular request is called latency. Correct? If the response come very fast, we say the system has low latency, which is very good. But, if the response takes too much time, then the system has high latency, which creates a slow user experience. So, it's always recommended to design your application with low latency because users always expect fast responses. And achieving low latency mostly depends on how well you design your application. For example, for one simple request, your application is hitting the database multiple times or it calling several external APIs or it performing unnecessary processing, then response time will automatically increase, which means latency becomes higher. Okay? That's why it's good to design your code and architecture carefully to reduce unnecessary operation and make application respond faster. This is what called latency. See this word, when you see first time, it might confuse you. But, if you'll try to understand the way I'm explaining, then it will be dead easy for you to remember. Okay? What do you mean by latency? Latency means for a single request, how much time your application takes to respond. That difference is called or that time difference is called latency. Okay? Now, what is throughput? Throughput means how many requests or how much load a system can handle within a certain time. For example, let's say I have one application. I'm getting 100 requests per now. Will my application handle if I'll get 1,000 requests per second? Or will my application will handle if I'll get millions of requests per second? This request handling capacity is called the throughput of your application. Okay? If the application can process a large number of request efficiently, we say it has high throughput. If it can handle only a small number of request, then throughput is very low. That's why developers carefully design the system to improve throughput using different design and implementation approach. So, you can go for load balancing, you can go for caching, asynchronous processing, horizontal scaling, and database optimization. So, that the system can handle huge traffic smoothly. Okay? So, latency means how much time system takes to respond or to process a single request. Throughput, how many requests your system can handle. Okay? This way, you can make the things easy to understand. Now, bottleneck. What do you mean by this bottleneck? Bottleneck means one component in the system that slow down the entire application. Okay? For example, imagine there is eight-lane highway where traffic is moving very smoothly, but suddenly at one point the road becomes a single narrow lane. Now, all the vehicle are forced to slow down at that particular point. Even though the rest of the highway is fast, that one narrow section impact the entire traffic flow. That narrow section is called the bottleneck. Software system also behave in the same way. Let's say you have three-layer architecture, you have front end, you have back end, and database. However, your front end is very fast, your back end APIs are optimized, your servers are powerful, but intermittently your database becomes slow. Now, because of that, the entire application starts feeling slow because every request depends on the database. In this case, this particular database becomes the bottleneck of the application. And that single database or that single component can impact the performance of the whole system. Okay? Who will create the problem because of a single component? If your system goes down or if if you found slowness in the system, then that particular faulty component is called bottleneck. Okay? That is simple. Now, let's move to the next one, that is availability. Okay? What do you mean by availability? Now, imagine your system is fast and scalable, but it frequently goes down. User won't care about your architecture. That's where availability becomes important. So, availability means how much time your system remains up and accessible. Let's take an example. You usually go to ATM machine, right? If ATM machine works anytime 24/7, then you can say it is high availability. If ATM often shows service unavailable, then you can say this is low availability. So, it's always recommended to design your system for high availability because user expect application to work anytime without any interruption. So, simple thing. For example, you're using Amazon or Flipkart for shopping. Now, in a day, whenever you will open, that page will not respond to you, then there is no availability. As a user, you'll never show interest to access that particular application. You can go to some other e-commerce platform to purchase the order instead of Amazon or Flipkart if you'll find the no availability, okay? So, these are very important concept. And there are multiple way to achieve this high availability, and we'll discuss them in details in our upcoming videos. Now, let's move to the last one, that is fault tolerance. What do you mean by fault tolerance? If you read this word carefully, you'll get the context, okay? So, imagine you have applied all the mechanism to make your system stable. Since it is distributed system, anything can goes down at anytime. Now, the question here, can the system still survive? That's where fault tolerance comes into the picture. Fault tolerance means system should continuous working even when failure happen. For example, you have created one application, and this application deployed in two different server, server one and server two. Now, imagine your server one crashes. If server two automatically handles all the traffic, then your system can survive. That is called fault tolerance. Even though my application was deployed into two different server, in case if one server goes down, my other server should able to handle all the incoming traffic. If you observe large application like Amazon or Netflix, they are designed with strong fault tolerance mechanism. That's why even if failure happens internally, as a users, we never notice the application going down completely. We are still able to access the application because their other server or replica server will able to handle those traffic. Okay? So, I believe these system design terminologies are much clear now for you. So, let's do one thing. Let's try to connect all the dots together. Imagine there is India versus Pakistan match. Millions of user open the food delivery application. To handle huge traffic, my system need scalability. To respond quickly, my system need low latency. To handle more traffic or massive order, my system need to design for high throughput. Okay? To avoid slow components, I need to handle bottleneck scenarios as well. To remain online during traffic, my system needs to be highly available. Okay? And even if server any server crashes, system should continue working if there is any failure. Okay? For that, I need to apply fault tolerance. All the concept if you will connect, this makes sense. Without applying these concept, you cannot design a system. To design any system or any application, you need to consider these six most important design terminologies. Trust me, this is the foundation of entire system design. Every architecture like Netflix, Uber, Amazon, Swiggy, Instagram all revolve around these same concept. In upcoming videos, we'll slowly start building real-world system design architecture using these same foundation. And throughout the journey, we'll keep using this concept again and again while understanding how modern application actually work behind the scene. Okay? So, make sure your fundamentals are strong because that will make advanced system design much easier to understand. Till then, happy coding. I'll see you in the next video.